it looks like any other desert at first
glance but look closer and you'll see an
entire underground town why would
anybody want to live here out in the
middle of nowhere
what are they hiding and could there be
other strange cities like it back in
1915 a boy found an opal gemstone in the
middle of the desert in South Australia
this discovery attracted attention to
this place and changed its history just
a year after that miners arrived at the
outback ready to try their luck at
finding opals today the city of Coober
Pedy is known as the opal capital making
up most of the world supply as soon as
the miners arrived at Cooper PD they
were met by a harsh unbearable climate
during the summer months temperatures
can exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit in the
shade with little rain and few trees
there was no place to hide from the
desert heat except underground the
miners dug caves into the hillsides and
set up camp in these so-called dugouts
as a bonus they also got protection from
desert sandstorms so let's take a tour
shall we a typical underground house
there is a three-room cave with a
kitchen a living room and a bathroom
other than the rock walls and lack of
Windows you could easily mistake it for
a normal above-ground home they have all
the amenities sewage water and
electricity there's often a separate
entrance to the mine from these houses
so miners don't even need to go outside
to get to work today there are about
2,500 residents in Coober Pedy fortune
seekers from all over come in hopes of
striking it big with opals some hard
work and a life spent underground
wouldn't scare away these true adventure
seekers finding a valuable opal is no
easy task
opals come in different colors and sizes
and are sometimes hard to value the most
commonly found is colorless don't get
too excited if you find one chances are
you won't even get a dollar for it play
of color
are another story those are very rare
and precious the largest and most
valuable opal was actually found here in
Coober Pedy the bowling ball-sized gem
weighs almost eight pounds it was dubbed
the Olympic Australis and valued at two
point five million dollars Cobra PD also
produces large quantities of black opal
the rarest type over time the city of
Cooper PD became a popular tourist
attraction people from all over the
world come here to see the largest
source of opals on earth and take a look
at the curious underground city and a
real city it is it has underground
stores cafes art galleries and even
hotels just be careful when you're out
and about touring the area the ground is
sprinkled with huge holes that go deep
underground these are mine shafts and
there are signs everywhere warning of
their presence you might not even see
one until you're right up on it even if
you're not interested in precious gems
Cobra PD has tons of cool sites for
example the world's longest fence goes
through the city the dingo fence runs
almost entirely across Australia's
southeastern quarter it's nearly 3500
miles long more than enough to span the
u.s. coast to coast you can also check
out the breakaways as you stare at these
beautiful mesas and hills the desert
sun's scorching on your neck it's hard
to believe all of this was under water
some 70 million years ago the Peruvian
city of La Rinconada is the exact
opposite of Coober Pedy from underground
on the outback to 16,000 feet high in
the Andes it's the highest human
habitation on the planet but like the
Australian opal capital this place went
from a small village to a bustling town
of 17,000 when people found gold in the
mountains it's not for the faint of
heart though some Outsiders find it hard
to breathe because of the town's extreme
elevation you probably won't notice
anything special about this small Polish
village but something's missing here
there are no boys not a single male
been born in almost a decade locals say
the number of newborn boys has always
been abnormally low scientists still
have no answer to the nature of this
phenomenon but village officials have
promised a reward to the couple who has
the first boy the city of Sentinel de
las bodegas in Spain attracts tourists
from all over the world it's so famous
because this town is built into a huge
rock walking along many of the streets
you won't see the sky above your head
when you look up just an overhanging
rock ceiling don't worry about it
collapsing these rocks have remained
like this for centuries imagine getting
to the other end of your city in your
slippers and pyjamas that wouldn't be
strange if you lived in Whittier Alaska
most of its residents live under the
same roof well it helps when the
population is only around 220 people
their hometown literally is a 14 story
building called Begich towers this towns
soul building incorporates a police
station post office hospital grocery and
many other basic services the only
land-based entrance to Whittier is
through a two and a half mile single
lane tunnel the longest highway tunnel
in North America mind you that's closed
at night another ultra small town is in
the middle of Arizona surrounded by the
Grand Canyon the village of Supai is
almost isolated from the rest of the
country to get here you need a
helicopter or you could try to walk this
is also the only town in the u.s. to use
mule mail this village has a population
of a bit over 200 people but they do
have a hotel if you're interested in
visiting and they have an amazing
waterfall that you'd have to see in
person to believe and if you thought
that was the smallest town out there
head to the village of mano a Nebraska
population one LCI lair is its single
resident she's also the mayor the entire
City Council actually librarian
salesperson and tavern keeper but she's
not alone the village became quite
popular so her friends from nearby towns
and tourists visit mano
all the time speaking of cold locations
how about the coldest of them all
oh my Aachen is a small Siberian village
where the lowest temperature in an
inhabited area was recorded - 90 degrees
Fahrenheit that's colder than the
average temperature on Mars
fruit freezes into hard colorful rocks
and water turns to ice instantly but for
the villages 500 residents it's all just
part of daily life hey at least they
have fair summer weather to look forward
to you'll immediately notice one thing
about the city of cheff ciao in Morocco
all the houses and buildings are blue
there are a few explanations for why
this is one of them says blue resembles
the sky the other is less romantic this
color supposedly keeps mosquitoes away
if you travel to certain parts of China
you might think your plane accidentally
landed on the wrong continent China is
full of entire copies of cities from
around the world the residents of
Guangdong can enjoy an exact replica of
a historic Austrian town of altheim
and anyone in Shanghai can have a
romantic dinner with the best view of
the Eiffel Tower
well elite the copy of it the port city
of Tianjin has an outlet mall it looks
just like an Italian village China is
also home to the largest ghost town in
the world welcome to the city of Ordos
although it was designed for more than a
million people it remained mostly
uninhabited for years when it was newly
built not many people could afford to
settle down there but in recent years
the situation has changed for the better
and now the former ghost town is
becoming more populated there's an
entire town on the Caspian Sea about 60
miles from Baku Azerbaijan the
industrial settlement of the oil rocks
began with a single path that connected
drilling platforms over the decades it
grew into a whole city that can house
2,000 people it's got a road system
multi-story buildings a cafeteria a
soccer field and even some factories and
workshops
another community on the water can be
found on Lake Maracaibo Venezuela but
such unique houses aren't the strangest
thing here this place is the lightning
capital of the world
residents of this village can see
lightning storms half the nights of the
year it can occur up to 280 times in a
single hour many scientists have
wondered about the cause of this
everlasting storm most degree is a
result of winds from nearby mountains I
imagine it's quite scenic a little scary
very loud but pretty